>> Ancient microorganisms
trapped in salt crystals may
help find proof of life on
mars and new evidence that
the building blocks of all life
originally came from space.
This is a Gaia News Breakdown.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Salt crystals in
Central Australia
hold tiny microorganisms
calculated
to be 830 million years old.
A new study looked at
halite salt crystals
from the Browne Formation
of Central Australia.
Using light microscopy,
an unintrusive method
of looking inside
the crystals, they
found organic solids and liquids
consistent with the size,
shape, and color of algae,
fungi, and bacteria.
Microorganisms have been
found before in salt crystals,
but the methods used to test
them have been destructive.
This light microscopy method
will preserve the crystals
for future study.
Also, previous finds of
microorganisms trapped in salt
have been dated at
250 million years old.
This latest discovery
marks a significant jump
in preserved microorganisms.
But could these ancient
organisms be reanimated?
Researchers have not
tried with these samples,
but in recent history,
some scientists
have had success in
reviving microorganisms.
As co-author Sarah
Schreder-Gomes
told Live Science, if they were
able to survive 250 million
years, why not a few
hundred million years more?
It's certainly a
possibility for the future
to try to culture them.
But perhaps the
biggest takeaway-- this
could be the way to
study samples from Mars.
As the Perseverance
Rover is currently
collecting samples of rocks
and soil that will eventually
come back to Earth, using this
technique could prove life
on Mars--
microscopic life
on Mars, but life
nonetheless-- without
destroying the samples.
But scientists will have time
to work on the technology,
as the Mars samples
are not expected to be
returned to Earth until 2033.
Did the essential building
blocks of life on Earth
come from space?
A new study of meteorites
says that may be true.
Published in "Nature
Communications,"
the researchers say they have
found all five nucleobases that
make up DNA and RNA
from meteorite samples.
Using state-of-the-art
analytical techniques,
researchers were able to
identify two compounds which
have been identified in other
meteorites as well as three new
compounds not seen in meteors.
This gives credence
to the theory
that major building blocks
of life came from space.
As study co-author Daniel
Glavin, a NASA astrobiologist,
told "Chemistry World,"
this study, quote,
"provides additional
support for the theory
that the delivery of
these compounds to Earth
by meteorites may
have played a role
in the emergence of genetic
functions for early life."
This could help prove that
we are all indeed starstuff.
For a new perspective, this
is a Gaia News Breakdown.